Kubernetes (k8s)
-----------------

k8s is an open source container management platform that automates the
deployment, management and scaling of conatiner based applications in
diff kinds of environments like physical, virtual and cloud native computing 
foundations


cluster - is a collection of nodes

node is phyical or virtual machines in the deployments are done

one node is desginated as master and n-1 nodes are called worker or slave nodes


master node ---> API Server, Controller Manager, Scheduler, etcd (control plane)

API Server - Acts as an entry point for all the commands or communications
             All components will communicate through this comopnent

etcd -- a kind of database storage
        a distributed key,value store that stores the entire cluster information

contoller -manager - 
1. watches the node health
2. scaling
3. replications set
4. endpoint controlling


5. cloud controller Manager --- to interact with the cloud env


scheduler -- 
assigns pods to noeds based on

	1. resource availablity
	2. contraints	
	3. policies
	4. rules


worker node --->  Kubelet, kubeproxy, pods

pods ---> Containers and containr runtime actual deployable unit

node is a collection of pods
pod is a collections of containers
CRI -- container runtime env, where all the pods will run

kubelet -- agent runs in worker to talk to api-server 
ensures containers described in pod specs are running

kube-proxy- manges networking rules on nodes
forward request to the correct pod through masters


1. Deployment---> to deploy our conatiner in the pod
   angularrest (deployment.yml)

2. service ----. expose pods externally or internally
   (service.yml)

we combine both (deployment+service).yml



kubectl set image deployment/angularrestdemo angularrestdemo=angularrestdemo:1.2
kubectl rollout status deployment/angularestdemo


Commands
--------

1. kubectl cluster-info  ( to check the cluster working status)

2. kubectl get nodes ( to check the available nodes)

3. kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml

4. kubectl apply -f service.yaml ( this is to be executed only when both properties are not
written in the deployment.yaml)

Note: in our case exectute only kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml

5. kubectl get deploy  ( to check the deployment info)

6. kubectl get pods ( to check the pods in which containers are running)

7. kubectl get svc ( to check the service info )

open the browser and access localhost:<portgiveninservice>
eg> localhost:30080


8. kubectl delete -f deployment.yaml ( to delete the deployment and service)


kubectl set image deployment/angularrestdemo angularrestdemo=angularrestdemoimage:1.1
kubectl rollout status deployment/angularrestdemo






